- Our final tool, Flagger is a progressive delivery tool
that uses GitOps.
Flagger was developed by Weaveworks
with the goal of automating releases
that use progressive delivery techniques.
In 2020, the project was donated
to the cloud native computing foundation.
Flaggers supports three types
of advanced deployment strategies
that we can use to release a new version of our application.
The first is a canary deployment.
This deployment gradually shifts more traffic
to a new application version
as long as the new release's vital signs remain positive.
A/B testing is another deployment type supported by Flagger.
In this strategy,
we release the new version of an application
and then selectively route a small segment
of traffic to it for testing.
If the metrics for the new version are positive,
we replaced the old version with the new version.
The final deployment strategy Flagger supports
is blue/green deployments.
This approach deploys the new version
and then transitions live traffic to it
only after it passes a series of tests.
At that point, our new version
becomes the active production version.
Flagger can be used with a wide array of technologies.
So I'm only going to touch on the architecture
at a high level.
Like Flux, Flagger runs in your cluster
and it can be deployed there using helm.
When we define a deployment strategy like a canary,
we use a custom resource definition
that stores the declarative definition
of that deployment YAML.
To route traffic for the deployment strategy,
Flagger can use it either a service mesh
or an ingress controller.
Istio Linkerd and App Mesh,
or some popular meshes that are supported by Flagger.
There's also broad support for ingress controllers
like NGINX,
Contour glue,
and many others.
In our setup, we'll be using the NGINX controller
to route a small amount of test traffic
to a new version of our application
through a canary deployment.
We'll see how to install Flagger in the controller
in upcoming lessons.